# sql-challenge


In this project a database 'Employees' is created, and queries are performed to answer some questions about employees. The database contains data about people whom the company employed during the 1980s and 1990s. All that remains of the employee database from that period are six CSV files. All theese CSV files are imported into a SQL database, tables are designed to hold the data from the CSV files and SQL queries are performed to answer the following questions:


* List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee.


* List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.


* List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.


* List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name.


* List first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.


* List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.


* List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.


* List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).

<br/><br/>

## Setup
EmployeeSQL folder contains 'tables.sql' file where all six tables are created, 'queries.sql' file which contains all the queries and 'ERD.png' file which contains an image of Entity Relationship Diagram of the tables. 
## References
This project is a part of UC Berkeley "Data Analysis and Visualisation" Boot Camp education services.
Data generated by Mockaroo (https://mockaroo.com/ ), LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

In projects' descriptions, some paragraphs are copy/pasted from 'Module 9 Challenge' of UC Berkeley Data Analytics and Visualisation Bootcamp course.
 
May-03-2023
